L17
How do you create a PickUpItem method for a player in Go?
Use the append function to add the item to the player's inventory slice, such as p.Inventory = append(p.Inventory, item), and optionally print a confirmation message like 'Picked up an item'

What is the strategy for implementing a DropItem method in Go?
Iterate through the inventory, find the item by name, then create a new slice by appending the slice before the item and the slice after the item using slice concatenation with the ellipsis operator

How can you create an item struct in Go for a role-playing game?
Define a struct with fields like Name and Type, for example:
type Item struct {
    Name string
    Type string
}

What approach can be used to implement a UseItem method for a player?
Range through the player's inventory, find the specific item by name, perform an action (like healing), and then remove the item from the inventory using slice manipulation

When appending items to a slice in Go, how does memory allocation work?
Go reuses the underlying array's length and capacity when appending, replacing values without necessarily creating an entirely new data structure, which helps maintain memory efficiency

L18
What is the recommended approach for structuring the main.go file in a Go project?
Keep main.go slim and simple, using it as an entry point to the application. Use other data structures and packages to handle core implementation and functionality.

When designing a package in Go, what is the first question to ask about data handling?
Determine if a struct is needed. Ask: 'Does this package need a struct?' A struct is a good solution when you need to pass resources around the application.

What are the two components returned by a constructor function in Go?
A constructor typically returns a pointer to a struct (e.g., a pointer to Application) and a potential error.

What is the purpose of using a logger in a Go application?
A logger provides a structured way to output messages, diagnose errors, and perform print debugging across the application. It can include additional information like timestamps.

In Go, when should the PANIC keyword be used?
PANIC should be reserved for situations that should never occur and where the application should completely stop if an error happens. It is not recommended for controlled or expected errors.

L19
What method is used to start an HTTP server in Go?
Use server.ListenAndServe() method, which starts the server and begins listening for incoming HTTP requests

What are the key timeout configurations for an HTTP server in Go?
IdleTimeout (maximum time to wait for next request when Keepalives are enabled), ReadTimeout (maximum duration for reading entire request), and WriteTimeout (maximum time for writing response)

What are the two arguments required for an HTTP handler function in Go?
An HTTP ResponseWriter (w) and an HTTP Request pointer (r), with signatures matching http.ResponseWriter and *http.Request

How do you bind a function to a specific route in a Go HTTP server?
Use http.HandleFunc(), which takes a path (like "/health") and the handler function as arguments

Why is the HTTP request parameter (r) a pointer in Go HTTP handlers?
To efficiently persist and modify client request data, especially when working with middleware or request body processing

L20
What Go standard library package allows parsing command-line flags?
The flag package enables parsing command-line flags when executing a Go program, allowing users to specify parameters like port numbers with default values.

How do you define a default flag value in Go's flag package?
When using flag.IntVar(), you can specify a default value as the third parameter, such as setting a default port to 8080 if no flag is provided.

What is the purpose of flag.Parse() in Go?
flag.Parse() is essential for processing the command-line flags and populating the variables defined with flags, enabling the application to use the passed values.

What is the difference between fmt.Printf() and fmt.Sprintf() in Go?
fmt.Printf() prints directly to standard output, while fmt.Sprintf() returns a formatted string that can be stored or manipulated further.

How can environment variables be retrieved in Go?
Go provides os.Getenv() to retrieve environment variable values by their key, and third-party packages can make environment variable management even easier.

L21
What is the primary purpose of the Chi package in Go?
Chi is a lightweight, idiomatic, and composable router for building Go HTTP services that implements standard library interfaces and allows for easy routing and middleware handling

What does the go.sum file represent in a Go project?
The go.sum file provides exact hashes for dependencies pulled into the application, similar to package-lock.json in web development, to ensure consistent and reproducible builds

What method is used to create a new router in Chi?
The chi.NewRouter() method is used to create a new router in the Chi package

How do you define a GET route using Chi?
Use the r.Get() method, specifying the path and handler function, such as r.Get('/health', app.HealthCheck)

What is the primary benefit of using method receivers on structs in Go?
Method receivers allow you to define methods that are associated with specific struct types, enabling object-oriented-like behavior and more organized code structure

L22
// curl localhost:8080/workouts/2
// curl -X POST localhost:8080/workouts

What method is used to extract URL parameters using the chi router?
chi.URLParam() is used to extract URL parameters from the HTTP request

What standard library package is used for string conversion to integers?
strconv package is used for string conversion, specifically the ParseInt() function

How is the application structure organized to manage handlers and routes?
An application struct is used to contain handlers, which can then be passed to routes to centralize access to different handler methods

What are the two HTTP methods implemented for the workout routes?
GET method for retrieving a workout by ID (/workouts/{id}) and POST method for creating a workout (/workouts)

What is the purpose of creating separate packages like 'api' and 'store'?
To organize code by separating concerns, such as API handlers and database interactions, making the application more modular and maintainable

L23
What command is used to ignore database files in Git?
Use touch .gitignore to create a gitignore file, then add /database and database to the file to prevent database files from being pushed to GitHub.

What is the purpose of defining a volume in a Docker Compose configuration?
To persist data between Docker container restarts, preventing data loss when the database is stopped and started

What is the default port for Postgres?
5432

What Docker Compose command is used to start a containerized database?
docker compose up --build (must go to the folder which has yml file)

L24
Which Postgres SQL driver is recommended for Go, and how can it be installed?
PGX is recommended, and it can be installed using 'go get github.com/jackC/pgx/v4/stdlib'

What are the typical connection parameters for connecting to a local Postgres database in this example?
host=localhost, user=postgres, password=postgres, dbname=postgres, port=5432, sslmode=disable

What Go standard library package is used for database connections?
database/sql package

How does Go's defer function work in the context of database connection closing?
Defer ensures a function is called at the end of the program's execution, after all other operations are complete, which is useful for closing database connections

What method is used to open a database connection in Go?
sql.Open() method, which takes a driver name and a connection string as arguments

L25
What is Goose and what primary purpose does it serve in database management?
Goose is a database migration tool for Go that allows modifications to database schema structure, enabling developers to add, change, or revert database changes safely and flexibly

What are the key fields in the users table migration?
The users table includes ID (BIGSERIAL primary key), username (VARCHAR, unique, not null), email (VARCHAR, unique, not null), password_hash (VARCHAR), bio (text), created_at (timestamp), and updated_at (timestamp)

What is the relationship between workouts and workout_entries in the database schema?
Workouts and workout_entries have a one-to-many relationship, where one workout can have multiple workout entries. The workout_entries table has a foreign key referencing the workouts table with ON DELETE CASCADE

What constraint is added to the workout_entries table to validate entries?
A constraint is added to ensure that a workout entry must have either reps or duration_seconds non-null, but not both, allowing for different types of exercises like weightlifting or running

What fields are included in the workout_entries table?
The workout_entries table includes ID, workout_ID (foreign key), exercise_name, sets, reps, duration_seconds, weight, notes, order_index, created_at, and updated_at

L26

What two arguments does the migrate function take?
The migrate function takes a pointer to sql.DB and a directory string as arguments

How does Goose determine which migration files to run?
Goose uses goose.Up() to run migration files from a specified directory, and goose.SetBaseFS() to set the file system containing the migration files

What command can be used to connect to the Postgres database and verify migrations?
psql -h localhost -p 5432 can be used to connect to the Postgres database, and \dt command lists the database tables

What does the MigrateFS() function do in the database migration process?
MigrateFS() sets the base file system for migrations, calls the Migrate function, and ensures the base file system is reset after migration


L27
What is the purpose of a struct tag in Go, specifically the json tag?
A struct tag helps with encoding and decoding JSON into a struct, allowing easy conversion between JSON payloads and struct fields with matching tag names.

Why might a field like 'Reps' be defined as a pointer to an int in a struct?
To explicitly allow checking for nil values, which provides more flexibility in handling optional or potentially unset numeric fields.

What is an interface in Go?
An interface is a collection of method signatures that defines a set of behaviors. When a type implements all the methods in an interface, it can be used as that interface type.

How does using an interface help with database decoupling in Go?
By defining a WorkoutStore interface with method signatures, the application layer can work with the interface without being tied to a specific database implementation, making future migrations easier.

What are the two methods defined in the WorkoutStore interface?
CreateWorkout (which takes a pointer to a Workout and returns a pointer to a Workout and an error) and GetWorkoutByID (which takes an int64 ID and returns a Workout or an error).

L28
What method is used to decode JSON request body in Go?
json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&workout) is used to parse JSON from the request body into a struct

What is the purpose of using an interface like WorkoutStore in this context?
The interface allows decoupling the API layer from the specific database implementation, enabling easier database swapping and maintaining flexibility across application layers

How do you set the response content type in an HTTP handler?
Use w.Header().Set("Content-Type", "application/json") to set the response content type to JSON

How can you encode a response struct back to the client?
Use json.NewEncoder(w).Encode(createdWorkout) to write the struct as a JSON response

What status code represents an internal server error in HTTP?
http.StatusInternalServerError (500) represents an internal server error when something goes wrong processing a request

L29
Note : 
We can't rollback after commit.

What is the purpose of using a database transaction in the CreateWorkout method?
To ensure that both the workout and its associated workout entries are committed together, maintaining data integrity. If any part of the process fails, the transaction can be rolled back to prevent partial data insertion.

What PostgreSQL notation is used for parameterized queries in this code?
The money symbol ($1, $2, $3, $4) is used to represent query parameters, with the number corresponding to the order of values being inserted.

What fields are inserted when creating a workout entry?
workout_id, exercise_name, sets, reps, duration_seconds, weight, notes, and order_index

How is database transaction error handling implemented in the CreateWorkout method?
A deferred transaction rollback is used, and errors are checked at each stage of the process. If an error occurs, the method returns nil and the error, and the transaction can be rolled back to its previous state.

L30
What command can be used to view all schemas created through Goose migration in PostgreSQL?
\dt command in PSQL can be used to view all schemas created through Goose migration

How can you verify database entries after creating a new workout?
Use 'select all from workouts' and 'select all from workout_entries' SQL commands to view the newly inserted data

What key attributes are included when creating a new workout entry?
Title, description, duration minutes, calories burned, and a list of workout entries with exercise names

What columns are displayed when selecting from the workouts table?
ID, title, description, duration, calories burned, created at, and updated at

How can you confirm that workout entries are correctly linked to a workout?
Check that the workout_entries table has a workout_id column matching the ID of the corresponding workout in the workouts table

DOCKER COMMAND TO CONNECT TO DB :
docker exec -it workoutDB psql -U postgres -h localhost -p 5432

L31
What SQL method is used to execute 
a query that returns at most one row?
QueryRow is used to execute a query that is expected to return at most one row

What error type indicates that no rows were returned from a database query?
sql.ErrNoRows is returned by Row scan when a database query does not return any rows

When retrieving database rows, what method is used to iterate through multiple results?
rows.Next() is used to iterate through multiple database query results

What function is used to add items to a slice in Go?
append() is used to add items to a slice

In a database query, what keyword is used to specify the order of returned results?
ORDER BY is used to specify the order of returned database results

L32

What method is used to handle updating workout entries in this implementation?
A full patch update where all existing workout entries are deleted and then reinserted with the new data, instead of updating individual entries

How does the code check if an update actually modified any rows?
By using the RowsAffected() method on the query result, which returns the number of rows affected, and checking if rowsAffected is zero

What database operation is used to manage the update process to ensure data consistency?
A database transaction is used, which allows beginning a transaction, performing updates, and then either committing the changes or rolling back if an error occurs

In the SQL update query for workouts, what fields are being updated?
Title, description, duration_minutes, and calories_burned, using a query that sets these fields where the workout ID matches

What is the approach for inserting updated workout entries after deletion?
Iterating through the workout entries, constructing an INSERT query with fields like workout_id, exercise_name, sets, reps, duration_seconds, weight, notes, and order_index

L33

What is the purpose of creating a pointer-based struct for update workout requests?
To allow checking if values are truly nil or intended to be empty, which helps distinguish between intentional updates and zero values. This enables more precise server-side validation by differentiating between unset fields and explicitly empty fields.

Why are pointer types used for Title, Description, DurationMinutes, and CaloriesBurned in the update request struct?


Because pointer types have a nil zero value, which allows distinguishing between unset fields and fields with zero/empty values. This provides more confidence in processing client requests by enabling precise field update checks.

What is the key difference between using pointer and non-pointer types for struct fields during JSON decoding?
Pointer types allow checking if a field was explicitly set or not, while non-pointer types default to zero values. This enables more granular validation of incoming JSON data by detecting whether a field was intentionally updated or left unmodified.

How does the update workout handler validate and apply updates from a client request?
The handler first decodes the request into a pointer-based struct, then checks each field for non-nil values. If a field is not nil, it updates the corresponding field in the existing workout object before calling the UpdateWorkout method in the data store.

What is the purpose of using json tags in the UpdateWorkoutRequest struct?
JSON tags define how struct fields are mapped during JSON decoding, allowing the fields to match the expected JSON keys from the client request. This ensures that JSON data is correctly parsed into the struct fields during the update process.

L34
What SQL operation is used to remove a record from the workouts table?
DELETE FROM workouts WHERE id = ?

What HTTP method is used to delete a resource in RESTful design?
DELETE

What HTTP status code is typically returned for a successful deletion with no content to send back?
HTTP 204 No Content

When deleting a workout, what additional check is performed to verify the deletion was successful?
Check the number of rows affected, return sql.ErrNoRows if 0 rows were affected

What are the steps to implement a delete operation in a database-driven application?
Update database layer interface, 2. Create delete method in database store, 3. Create handler function, 4. Add route for delete operation

L35
What is the purpose of the Envelope type in the writeJSON function?
The Envelope is a map with a string key and an interface{} value, allowing flexible JSON serialization by enabling different types of data to be passed, such as error messages or success data like workout structs

How does json.MarshalIndent() differ from standard JSON marshaling?
It allows for indentation of JSON fields by specifying a prefix and indent, making the JSON output more readable compared to compact JSON

What does the chi.URLParam() function do in the readIDParam function?
It extracts a URL parameter from an HTTP request, specifically retrieving the 'ID' parameter as a string from the request

What conversion is performed on the ID parameter in the readIDParam function?
The ID parameter is converted from a string to an int64 using strconv.ParseInt() with base 10, allowing numeric processing of the URL parameter

What are the two primary functions being created in the utils package?
The two functions are writeJSON (for standardized JSON response writing) and readIDParam (for extracting and converting ID parameters from HTTP requests)

L36

How can you improve error handling when writing server responses using a logger?
Use a logger to write detailed error messages, utilize the utils.writeJSON function with specific HTTP status codes, and create an Envelope with an error key to send structured error responses to the client

What is the purpose of the utils.Envelope function in JSON responses?
The utils.Envelope function provides a flexible way to structure JSON responses by allowing dynamic key-value pairs, making it easier to return different types of data with a consistent response format

What are the recommended best practices for handling errors in HTTP handlers?
Log detailed error messages for internal debugging, use appropriate HTTP status codes (like StatusBadRequest or StatusInternalServerError), and provide generic error messages to clients that don't expose sensitive internal details

What HTTP status codes are typically used for different error scenarios?
StatusBadRequest (400) for client-side errors like invalid input, StatusInternalServerError (500) for server-side errors like database failures, and StatusOK (200) for successful operations

How can you simplify JSON response handling in Go HTTP handlers?
Create a utility function like utils.writeJSON that accepts an http.ResponseWriter, status code, and an Envelope, which abstracts the process of writing JSON responses and error handling

L37
What is table-driven testing in Go, and how does it relate to anonymous structs?
Table-driven testing in Go is a testing approach where test cases are defined using a slice of anonymous structs, allowing multiple test scenarios to be defined concisely. Anonymous structs are particularly useful in this approach as they can quickly define test inputs and expected outputs without creating separate named types.

Why create a separate test database instead of using mocks or in-memory databases?
Creating a separate test database allows for testing the actual SQL queries and database interactions directly, ensuring the integrity of database operations. This approach provides more realistic testing compared to mocks, especially when custom SQL queries are being used.

What are the key considerations when setting up a test database in Docker Compose?
When setting up a test database in Docker Compose, key considerations include: using a different container name, using a different volume path, ensuring the database runs on a different port than the main database, and using the same database image as the production database.

What is the philosophy behind meaningful testing in software development?
Meaningful testing focuses on gaining actual value from tests, rather than simply writing tests to demonstrate test coverage. The goal is to validate the functionality and integrity of code, ensuring that tests provide genuine insights into the system's behavior.

What is Test-Driven Development (TDD), and what are potential drawbacks?
Test-Driven Development (TDD) is an approach where tests are written before the actual code implementation. Potential drawbacks include the repetitive nature of running tests multiple times and the potential overhead of constantly switching between writing tests and implementation code.

L38
What is the purpose of the 'testify' package in Go testing?
Testify is an industry-standard Go testing package that provides utilities for asserting values, checking for errors, and creating mocks in test cases

What is the recommended practice for handling a test database in Go testing?
Use a separate test database that is wiped clean between test suites to prevent contamination between different test cases, ensuring each test starts with a blank slate

What command is used to install the testify package?
go get github.com/stretcher/testify

What SQL command is used to truncate tables in the test database?
TRUNCATE workouts and workout_entry CASCADE

What port is typically used for the test database in this example?
Port 5433, which is different from the main database running on port 5432

L42
What are the fields in the user struct?
ID (int), username (string), email (string), password (custom password struct), bio (string), created_at (time.Time), updated_at (time.Time)

What three methods are defined in the UserStore interface?
CreateUser (takes a user, returns an error), GetUserByUsername (takes a username string, returns a user pointer and error), UpdateUser (takes a user pointer, returns an error)

What package is used for password hashing?
golang.org/x/crypto/bcrypt

What fields does the password struct contain?
plainText (pointer to a string), hash (slice of bytes)

What struct is created to handle Postgres database communication?
PostgresUserStore, which contains a field for sql.DB

L43

What method is used to scan returning fields when creating a user in PostgreSQL?
The Scan() method is used to scan returning fields into the appropriate struct fields, typically scanning ID, CreatedAt, and UpdatedAt fields by passing their memory addresses.

How do you handle the case when no rows are returned in a SELECT query?
Check if the error is sql.ErrNoRows, in which case you can return nil, nil to indicate no error occurred and no data was found.

What PostgreSQL function is used to automatically update the timestamp in an update query?
CURRENT_TIMESTAMP is the native Postgres function used to automatically set the updated timestamp when updating a record.

What steps are taken to check row update success in a PostgreSQL update operation?
Use result.RowsAffected() to check the number of rows updated. Return sql.ErrNoRows if zero rows were affected, otherwise return nil if the update was successful.

What fields are typically included when creating a new user in a PostgreSQL database?
Typical fields include username, email, password hash, bio, created_at, and updated_at.

L44
What are the fields in the UserHandler struct?
The UserHandler struct has two fields: UserStore (of type store.UserStore) and a logger (pointer to log.logger)

What fields are included in the registeruserrequest struct?
The registeruserrequest struct includes username (string), email (string), password (string), and bio (string)

What is the purpose of the validateRegisterRequest method?
The method performs server-side validation for user registration, checking for empty or invalid fields like username, email, and password

How does the email validation work in the registration process?
The method uses a regex pattern to validate email format, returning an error if the email does not match the specified regex pattern

Why is backend validation important even if frontend validation exists?
Backend validation provides an additional layer of protection against incorrect or malicious data that might slip through frontend validation, preventing improper data from being persisted in the database

L45
What are the parameters of the handleRegisterUser function?
The function takes an HTTP response writer (w) and a pointer to an HTTP request (r)

How do you decode JSON request data in the register user handler?
Use json.NewDecoder(r.Body).Decode(&request) to decode the request body into a registerUserRequest struct

What steps are taken if JSON decoding fails during user registration?
Log an error, use utils.WriteJSON() to send a bad request status, and return an error envelope with an invalid payload message

How is a new user created in the registration process?
Create a store.User with the username and email from the request. If bio is provided, also set the user's bio field

What validation is performed on the register user request?
Use validateRegisterUserRequest() function to validate the request, which returns an error if validation fails

L46

What is a recommended security practice when storing user passwords?
Hash the password instead of storing it in plain text to reduce potential security risks and protect user data

What is the purpose of the bcrypt.GenerateFromPassword() method?
To transform a plain text password into a secure hashed representation using a hashing algorithm with a configurable work factor (salt)

What does the work factor (salt) in password hashing represent?
A value that determines the computational complexity of the hashing process. Higher values increase security but take longer to compute, while lower values are faster but less secure

What is the recommended default work factor for bcrypt password hashing?
12 is considered a good middle ground for balancing security and computational performance

Why is it important to provide a generic error message during failed login attempts?
To prevent potential attackers from gaining information about existing user accounts by not explicitly revealing whether the username or password was incorrect\

L47
What are the three main types of authentication methods discussed?
OAuth 2.0, 2. Stateless token authentication (JWT), 3. Stateful token authentication

What are the key characteristics of a JSON Web Token (JWT)?
A JWT is encoded into three parts: 1. Hashing algorithm, 2. Signing signature, 3. User-selected encoded information. It is typically stored client-side and contains authentication information within the token itself.

What is a major limitation of JWT authentication?
Once a JWT is issued, it cannot be revoked. To invalidate a token, the entire signing method must be changed, which can affect all tokens in the system.

What are the key advantages of stateful token authentication?
The backend maintains complete control over the token, 2. Tokens can be easily revoked by deleting them from the database, 3. No need to change signing methods when revoking a token

What is a potential drawback of stateful token authentication?
It requires an additional database call to verify the token's integrity, which can slightly increase authentication processing time

L48

// goose migration command: (run in root of the project folder)
goose -dir migrations postgres "postgres://postgres:postgres@localhost:5433/postgres?sslmode=disable" up


What PostgreSQL command creates a table only if it does not already exist?
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS

What SQL constraint ensures that a referenced user is deleted along with its associated tokens?
ON DELETE CASCADE

What PostgreSQL data type is used for storing byte array values in the tokens table?
bytea

What command is used to apply database migrations with Goose?
goose postgres 'connection_string' up

What database schema fields are defined in the tokens table?
hash (bytea), user_id (bigint), expiry (timestamp with time zone), scope (text)

L49

What are the key fields in the Token struct?
The Token struct contains: PlainText (string), Hash (slice of bytes), UserID (int), Expiry (time.Time), and Scope (string)

What function is used to generate a random token?
The GenerateToken function uses rand.read() to generate a slice of 32 random bytes, and then encodes it using base32.StdEncoding with no padding

What hashing algorithm is used for tokens?
The tokens use SHA-256 hashing from the crypto/sha256 package to hash the token's plaintext

What is the purpose of token scopes?
Token scopes represent different levels of privilege or access, such as authentication, authorization, mod, admin, or grandfathered-in scopes

What methods are defined in the TokenStore interface?
The TokenStore interface includes three methods: CreateNewToken(), Insert(), and DeleteAllTokensForUser()

L50

What are the fields of the TokenHandler struct?
The TokenHandler struct contains tokenStore of type store.TokenStore, userStore of type store.UserStore, and a logger

What struct is used to decode client request data for token creation?
The createTokenRequest struct, which contains Username and password fields of type string

What are the steps for creating an authentication token in the HandleCreateToken method?
Decode request payload, 2. Retrieve user by username, 3. Validate password using bcrypt, 4. Create a token with user ID and 24-hour lifespan

What parameters are used when creating a new token?
The method passes user.ID, a 24-hour duration, and tokens.scopeAuth when creating a new token

What HTTP status codes are used in token creation error handling?
Bad Request (400) for invalid payload
Internal Server Error (500) for user retrieval or password matching issues
Unauthorized (401) for invalid credentials
Created (201) for successful token generation

L51

How can you verify if a new user has been created in the PostgreSQL database?
Use the SQL command 'select * from users' to list all users in the database, which will display the newly created user's details like username and email.

What SQL command is used to view the tokens table in the database?
Use 'select all from tokens' to view the entries in the tokens table, which will show details like user ID, token hash, expiry, and scope.

What information is stored in the tokens table?
The tokens table stores user ID, token hash, token expiry (24 hours from creation), and the token's scope (such as authentication).

How can you test authentication token generation?
Use a curl request to the /token/authentication endpoint with the correct username and password, which will generate an authentication token if credentials are valid.

What happens if incorrect credentials are used during token authentication?
If incorrect credentials are provided, the system will return an 'Invalid credentials' error and prevent token generation.

L52

What is the purpose of the AnonymousUser variable in the code?
The AnonymousUser is an empty user struct used to validate whether a user is logged in or not, representing users who have not yet registered or logged into the application.

What method is implemented to check if a user is anonymous?
The IsAnonymous() method is implemented, which returns a boolean by comparing the current user struct to the AnonymousUser. If they are equivalent, the user is considered anonymous.

What type of database query is used in the GetUserToken method?
An INNER JOIN query is used, which selects user table values and matches them with token table values based on the user ID, while also checking the token hash, scope, and expiration time.

What security mechanism is implemented when retrieving a user's token?
The GetUserToken method uses SHA-256 hashing to generate a hash of the token, and then queries the database to verify the token's validity, checking its hash, scope, and ensuring it has not expired.

What specific values are scanned when retrieving a user from the token?
The method scans the following user values: ID, Username, Email, PasswordHash, Bio, CreatedAt, and UpdatedAt from the database query result.

L53

What is the purpose of creating a custom context key type in Go?
To prevent collisions when storing values in context, by creating a unique type (even if it's still a string) that ensures type safety and unique indexing when retrieving values from the context

How can you add a value to the context of an HTTP request in Go?
Use r.WithContext(context.WithValue(r.Context(), contextKey, value)), which creates a new context with the added value and returns a modified request

What method is used to retrieve a value from context using a specific key?
Use r.Context().Value(contextKey) with type assertion, which returns the value and a boolean indicating whether the type matches the expected type

What is the recommended approach for handling a missing user in a request context?
Use a panic with an error message like 'missing user in request', which will crash the application if a user is not found in the context

How do you define a custom context key type in Go?
Create a new type based on string, such as type contextKey string, which allows creating unique keys like const userContextKey contextKey = "user"